---
layout: post 
title: The Many Incarnations Of EssayMaker
---

To this date, I believe I have written EssayMaker (or any similar project) about 8 times. I'd like to take you back, from the very first version I released in 2011 to the one I'm working on right now.

---

## Story Maker 9000 (March 2011 - November 2011)
The first version of EssayMaker was not for essays but for stories, as at the time (I was 8 years old) I didn't really know what an essay was. In school we always just wrote short stories at the time, so I wrote this. I think originally I wrote it on an insomnia night, and I couldn't go to sleep so I just wrote it then and there. I released it in 2011, but I do remember working on much more of it before releasing it for the first time.

<iframe allowtransparency="true" width="485" height="402" src="//scratch.mit.edu/projects/embed/1689442/?autostart=false" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

That was the first version I released, but if you want to see every version of Story Maker 9000, you can go [here](https://scratch.mit.edu/studios/121654/). All of these were written in a small language intended for children called Scratch. At the time, I was very interested in code but this was the easiest way that I could get started, so I just used it. These are very embarrassing to look at now, because of the amount of junk I put in there just to screw around. Still very nostalgic to think that I did these 4 years ago.

## NonFiction Story (2013-2014)
NonFiction Story was the first project I made that was the most similar to EssayMaker as it is today. In school, we began to do essays, so I decided to make a new version of Story Maker just for essays, or, I guess "NonFiction Stories". It uses the same blocks and such that were in Story Maker, and other than that, it was essentially a more mature version of Story Maker for essays. This was, again, written in Scratch.

<iframe allowtransparency="true" width="485" height="402" src="//scratch.mit.edu/projects/embed/15561806/?autostart=false" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## OCD (2014)
I wrote so many versions of EssayMaker in this year. Like, way too many.

1. EssayMaker Batch
    - Entirely written in Batch.
    - Very bad.
    - Still available over at my repository `[oldcode](http://github.com/soops/oldcode)`.
2. EssayMaker Console
    - Entirely written in C#, but with an absense of GUI.
    - Decent, but still pretty much bad.
    - Not available at the moment, I believe I deleted it off of GitHub. Still a chance of it coming back in the `oldcode` repo.
3. EssayMaker Winforms
    - Entirely written in C#, but with a GUI. Uses Windows Forms.
    - Pretty good, actually the most fully featured version yet. For better or worse.
    - Available in old commits of the current EssayMaker repository.
4. EssayMaker WPF
    - Entirely written in C#, by a man by the name of High-Core. Prettier than EssayMaker Winforms.
    - Good, but not written by me.
    - Again, available in old commits of the current EssayMaker repository.
5. EssayMaker Web
    - One of the first projects I wrote on the web.
    - Very barebones port of EssayMaker WPF.
    - Weird, and very ugly.
    - Available in old commits of the `gh-pages` branch of the current EssayMaker repository.

## EssayMaker (2015)
And, now we have the best version yet. The one I am currently developing on my own. You know the one. I've revamped everything, and created a fully featured web client for EssayMaker. It has a fresh coat of paint and a fresh rewrite of code. The eighth edition.

---

There you have it, folks. Every version of EssayMaker ever, and where to find them. Nostalgia forever.